# Fall 2019 Game Design — Assignment 2 (Reading and background rendering)

* **Do not edit this file.**  
* **Do not start this project until you have read these instructions carefully.**

## Introduction
This assignment is broken down into two parts: 1) answering questions from the readings, and 2) generating two environment backgrounds, including obstacles, in which the creature from your first assignment lives.

## Before You Begin
1. Log in to GitHub.
2. Fork this repo(sitory). See [this video](http://code-warrior.github.io/tutorials/git/github/forking-and-cloning-at-the-github-web-site/) on how to carry out this step and step `3`.
3. Clone your fork, using either the web site or the GitHub Desktop client.
4. Checkout your personalized branch, the one with your name and GitHub user handle.

## Programming
* Using Processing, open the `sketch` folder in this repo. Do all your work in this sketch and do not rename the folder or its containing `.pde` file.
* Create a canvas that is `1280 × 800`.
* Add your creature from assignment 1, complete with keyboard bindings.
* Render a background in the canvas using **only** Processing’s primitives (no images).
* Design 5 different obstacles to the background discussed in the previous step using **only** images (no primitives). **You must have the right to use those images,** and they must have a `.png` or a `.jpg` extension. Place them in the included `img` folder.
* Render a second background in the canvas using one or more images (no primitives). **You must have the right to use those images,** and they too must have a `.png` or a `.jpg` extension. Place them in the included `img` folder.
* Using **only** Processing’s primitives (no images), design 5 different obstacles to be included in the background from the previous step.
* Creatures and obstacles must employ collision detection.
* Pressing the letter ”F” on the keyboard enables the first background and disables the second.
* Pressing the letter ”S” on the keyboard enables the second background and disables the first.

## Questions from Readings
For the following five questions, include your answers between the set of backticks under each question.

1. What is a game?
```

```
2. Should game objectives be simple or elaborate?
```

```
3. In the early 1980s, how many machine type dominated the gaming market? Describe them.
```

```
4. In the development of a major video game, the roles include programmer, artist, designer, producer, tester, composer, sound designer, and writer. Define the roles of the designer and the programmer.
```

```
5. Which role is a great gateway job into the gaming industry?
```

```

## Due Date
⏰ **Saturday, 12 October 2019, at 11:59 PM. 🚫 _No late work will be accepted._**

## Submission
Issue a pull request back into the original repo, the one from which your forked was created, before the deadline. [Look at these videos](http://code-warrior.github.io/tutorials/git/github/) for help on how to do so.

**Note**: This assignment may *only* be submitted via GitHub. 🚫 **_No other form of submission will be accepted_**.

## Grading
| Item                                 | Points |
|--------------------------------------|:------:|
| **Questions**                        | `25`   |
| **First background rendering**       | `10`   |
| **Obstacles for first background**   | `20`   |
| **First background rendering**       | `10`   |
| **Obstacles for first background**   | `20`   |
| **“F” key is assigned**              | `5`    |
| **“S” key is assigned**              | `5`    |
| **Arrow keys work to move creature** | `5`    |
